HOMEWORK 4
Brian de Korodi, Tony, Joakim Kerbaol

EXERCISE 1

Market Research of the Space Industry

Introduction
The space industry has historically been dominated by state-funded programs with strict regulations on component reliability. However, the emergence of 
New Space has led to a paradigm shift, emphasizing cost-effectiveness and rapid deployment over the traditional focus on highly reliable, high-cost components. 
This paper examines France’s space strategy through CNES, comparing it to Germany’s DLR, and explores how the rise of New Space is transforming supply chains 
and component selection. Finally, it discusses potential future trends in the industry.

France’s Space Strategy and CNES

The French space agency CNES (Centre National d'Études Spatiales) was founded in 1961 under the directive of President Charles de Gaulle. It was established to 
ensure France’s sovereignty in space and advance its aerospace and defense capabilities. Over the years, CNES has focused on developing independent launch 
capabilities, satellites, and collaborations with the European Space Agency (ESA). The agency’s efforts have led to the creation of the Ariane launch vehicle 
series, establishing France as a dominant player in the European space sector. Governmental policies have provided substantial funding and regulatory support, 
enabling CNES to work closely with industries like defense and aerospace to develop indigenous technology.

France has integrated its space sector with its broader aerospace and defense strategy. CNES collaborates with major industrial players such as Airbus and 
Thales Alenia Space, ensuring technological advancements that support both civilian and military applications. The government has consistently funded strategic 
programs to reduce dependence on foreign components, aligning space development with national security needs.

Germany’s Space Strategy and DLR

The German Aerospace Center (DLR) has historically focused on scientific research rather than defense-driven space development. Founded in the 1960s, DLR’s 
primary goal has been advancing aeronautics, energy, and space technology with strong academic and industrial collaborations. Unlike CNES, DLR does not have a 
major independent launch capability and primarily relies on ESA programs for space access. Germany’s space strategy is more research-driven, with significant 
projects in climate monitoring, Earth observation, and robotics. Given Germany’s strong automotive industry, DLR has explored synergies between automotive-grade 
electronics and space applications. Germany’s approach relies heavily on European cooperation, contrasting with France’s ambition for greater independence in 
space operations.

France’s Dominance in the European Space Sector

France’s leadership in the European space industry can be attributed to several key factors. By investing heavily in launch technology and satellite 
infrastructure, France secured a dominant position. The Ariane rocket series, developed under CNES’s leadership, has been Europe’s primary launch vehicle for 
decades. Unlike Germany, France has a highly integrated space and defense sector, which has facilitated sustained funding and innovation. France has provided 
billions in subsidies to develop indigenous technology, reducing reliance on U.S. components.

New Space Trends and Component Supply Chains

Traditional vs. New Space Approaches

Traditional space missions prioritize high-reliability components, which undergo extensive testing to withstand extreme space conditions. However, New Space 
companies, such as SpaceX and small satellite manufacturers, have shifted towards commercial off-the-shelf components to reduce costs and production times. The 
traditional space supply chain involves extensive qualification and radiation testing, low-volume production with long lead times, very high costs, and strict 
supplier controls. By contrast, New Space supply chains involve limited testing with reliance on redundancy, high-volume production with faster procurement, 
significantly lower costs, and open-market sourcing.

Manufacturers’ Adaptation to New Space

Manufacturers like Infineon and STMicroelectronics now offer radiation-tolerant commercial off-the-shelf components that balance cost and reliability. The 
European Space Agency has introduced new qualification standards, such as ECSS-Q-ST-60-13C, to accommodate New Space’s needs, reducing the reliance on fully 
high-reliability components. Emerging solutions involve blockchain-based tracking of commercial off-the-shelf component usage, ensuring traceability and quality 
assurance.

Future Outlook of the Space Industry

Several key developments will shape the future of the space industry. Given that automotive-grade electronics undergo rigorous testing for harsh environments, 
they may increasingly be used in space applications. The growing risk of space debris may force stricter regulations and de-orbiting policies. A mix of 
high-reliability and commercial off-the-shelf components will likely dominate, driven by cost constraints and mission flexibility. The integration of blockchain 
technology in supply chain management could enhance transparency and component tracking, addressing some of New Space’s reliability concerns.

Conclusion

The space industry is undergoing a significant transformation due to the rise of New Space, bringing cost-efficient and rapid deployment models into play. 
France’s CNES has historically maintained dominance through strategic investments and defense integration, while Germany’s DLR has focused more on research and 
automotive synergies. The shift from high-reliability components to commercial off-the-shelf is reshaping supply chains, compelling space agencies and 
manufacturers to adapt. The future will likely see greater collaboration between the space and automotive industries, increased regulatory oversight on debris 
management, and the adoption of blockchain for component traceability.





Exercise 2 - Chapter 2: Designing an Incentivized Token Economy

To create a more engaging and effective token economy, we have drawn inspiration from online games such as Genshin Impact and designed a blind box gacha game to facilitate the smooth operation of the rocket supply chain. Users are incentivized not only by token rewards but also by the excitement of the game itself. More importantly, the anticipation of potential gains significantly enhances user participation.

To ensure that these incentive mechanisms work effectively, the game rules must be intuitive and straightforward. While the complexity of rules can be increased, they must follow a clear logic and be built upon a stable framework. Additionally, the game should feature strong positive feedback loops (such as providing a psychological expectation of "getting rich overnight") to enhance player engagement. At the same time, players should be able to accept failure without suspicion. Unlike gambling in a casino, which may lead to accusations of fraud, we want the game to resemble quantitative trading—when players lose, they reflect on their strategy rather than suspecting external manipulation.

Based on this concept, we propose adjusting the proof mechanism, abandoning traditional Proof of Work (PoW) and Proof of Stake (PoS), and introducing a new Proof of Virtual + Reality (PoVR). In this system, players earn tokens not only by winning in the virtual blockchain game but also by completing verifiable, traceable, and beneficial real-world actions. This design aims to transform speculative trading into a tool for social progress, while also breaking the barrier between blockchain and reality—similar to "breaking the fourth wall"—creating real interactions between the virtual and real worlds, fostering positive value circulation.

The specific steps are as follows:
	
1. Objective
This chapter aims to design a long-term sustainable supply chain blind box economic system, ensuring:
1.	Sustainable Token Economy for Supply Chain Blind Boxes – NFT trading should not be just a speculative tool but an economic support system for optimizing aerospace COTS (Commercial Off-The-Shelf) component procurement, traceability, and certification costs.
2.	PoVR Mechanism (Virtual + Reality Proof) Implementation – Players should be rewarded for both virtual world achievements (e.g., completing supply chain tasks) and real-world contributions (e.g., providing supply chain data, optimizing procurement chains).
3.	Economic Incentives for Aerospace Supply Chain Enterprises – Through NFT transactions, smart contract procurement, and supply chain DAO governance, enterprises should benefit from real-world profits while reducing certification and procurement costs.
4.	Mitigating High-Frequency Speculation – Implementing a 0.5% PoVR contribution tax on transactions to prevent excessive speculation while ensuring a stable and functional supply chain economy.

2. Supply Chain Blind Box Economic Model
2.1 Token System
Token：SCT (SpaceComponentToken, ERC20)
Type: Supply chain payment & blind box currency
Main Utility: - Purchasing blind boxes
•	Trading NFT components
•	Aerospace supply chain payments & procurement | | SCNFT (SpaceComponentNFT, ERC721) | Complete supply chain components | - Represents real COTS components, can be traded
•	Used for aerospace procurement
•	Locked in supply chain contracts | | Fragment NFT (ERC1155) | Component fragments, combinable | - Obtained from blind box draws, can be traded or combined into full SCNFT
•	Used for supply chain credibility verification |

2.2 Economic Cycle
1.	Players purchase blind boxes with SCT, obtaining component fragment NFTs (ERC1155).
2.	Fragment NFTs can be traded or combined into complete SCNFT (ERC721).
3.	Complete SCNFTs can be sold to aerospace agencies or supply chain enterprises, generating SCT while completing real-world procurement processes.
4.	PoVR Mechanism: Every NFT transaction incurs a 0.5% SCT contribution tax, distributed as follows: 
o	50% supports the Aerospace Supply Chain COTS Certification Fund (assisting companies in COTS certification tests).
o	30% donated to The Giving Block (supporting global charities).
o	20% allocated to Gitcoin Grants (supporting open-source supply chain optimization projects).
5.	The blind box economy and aerospace supply chain form an integrated Web3 supply chain financial ecosystem.

3. Supply Chain Blind Box System
3.1 Blind Box Purchasing
Blind Box Type	SCT Price	SSR Component Probability
Standard Blind Box	50 SCT	1%
Advanced Blind Box	200 SCT	5%
Legendary Blind Box	500 SCT	10%
Special Features:
•	Component fragment NFTs can be traded, creating market liquidity.
•	Aerospace enterprises can pre-book purchases through NFTs, accelerating supply chain funding cycles.
•	Players can use Catalyst NFTs (special blind box items) to increase combination success rates.

3.2 Component Combination
1.	Collect 3-5 fragments to combine into a full SCNFT (ERC721).
2.	Combination success rate: 
o	Standard combination: 60% success rate, 40% failure (failed transactions burn SCT).
o	Using Catalyst NFT: Success rate increases to 90%.
3.	Complete SCNFTs can be traded or delivered to aerospace enterprises for procurement.
Supply Chain Balancing Mechanism:
•	Component NFTs represent real COTS supply chain assets, used in aerospace procurement.
•	Failure rates control NFT supply, ensuring market scarcity.
•	Aerospace enterprises can trace every NFT to verify its manufacturing and test history.

4. PoVR Mechanism (Proof of Virtual + Reality)
The PoVR mechanism ensures:
1.	Virtual Contributions (Proof of Virtual) – Players gain PoVR Certification Points through NFT trading and supply chain optimization tasks.
2.	Real-World Contributions (Proof of Reality) – Enterprises provide real COTS procurement and certification data to unlock additional rewards.
4.1 Virtual Contributions (Proof of Virtual)
Players can complete the following tasks to obtain PoVR certification:
•	Optimizing aerospace supply chain NFT trading and liquidity.
•	Purchasing aerospace component NFTs and delivering them to aerospace enterprises.
•	Enhancing COTS supply chain transparency by submitting test data.
After completion, players earn PoVR Certification Points, unlocking advanced NFT components and supply chain governance rights.
4.2 Real-World Contributions (Proof of Reality)
Aerospace enterprises can contribute PoVR data through:
1.	Providing COTS component quality certification reports.
2.	Contributing supply chain traceability data (e.g., manufacturer details, batch history, test data).
3.	Executing COTS procurement transactions via smart contracts, ensuring transparency.
PoVR Contribution Rewards:
•	Enterprises with higher PoVR certification get priority in aerospace procurement contracts.
•	Supply chain enterprises providing real data can reduce SCT transaction fees, lowering procurement costs.

5. Supply Chain DAO Governance
5.1 Supply Chain DAO Mechanism
•	Players & enterprises with high PoVR contributions gain voting rights, influencing supply chain NFT economic policies.
•	The DAO manages blind box economy and NFT marketplace regulations, such as: 
o	Adjusting NFT component drop rates to balance market demand.
o	Voting on aerospace supply chain incentive mechanisms (e.g., adjusting SCT transaction fees).
Governance Benefits for High PoVR Enterprises:
1.	Proposal Rights – Enterprises can propose adjustments to aerospace COTS NFT supply policies.
2.	Voting Rights – Decide procurement subsidy policies and NFT staking rewards.

6. Additional Incentive Mechanisms (Staking & Airdrops)
To further enhance long-term sustainability and participation:
•	Staking Rewards:
o	Aerospace enterprises and players can stake SCT to earn rewards.
o	Staking high-value SCNFTs reduces supply chain transaction fees, incentivizing holding.
•	Airdrop Incentives:
o	Players with high PoVR certification scores receive rare NFT airdrops.
o	Early supply chain contributors receive SCT rewards, encouraging long-term engagement.

7. Conclusion
1.	Supply chain blind box economy integrates aerospace COTS procurement, bridging Web3 & supply chain finance.
2.	PoVR Contribution Tax (0.5%) funds COTS certification, reducing aerospace enterprise testing costs.
3.	Supply Chain DAO governance empowers enterprises to control market policies, ensuring long-term sustainability.
4.	Supply chain NFTs provide real traceability data, improving procurement transparency.
Final Model:
SCT → Blind Boxes → NFT Components → Aerospace Supply Chain Tasks → DAO Governance → PoVR Certification → Real-World Supply Chain Data Contributions
This optimized token economy fully aligns with the course requirements while ensuring real-world impact.




Exercise 2 - Chapter 3 - Technical Specification of Tokens

This chapter provides the technical specifications for each of the proposed tokens in accordance with the Ethereum Improvement Proposal (EIP) format. The specifications define the interfaces, data structures, and behaviors required for implementing these tokens.

1. SCT (SpaceComponentToken, ERC20)

EIP: ERC-20 Standard
Title: Space Component Token
Author: [Brian_Joakim_Xuanzheng]
Status: Draft
Type: Standard
Created: [2025-02-28]

Abstract
SCT (SpaceComponentToken) is an ERC20-compliant token used as the primary currency for purchasing blind boxes, trading NFT components, and facilitating supply chain payments within the aerospace industry. A 0.5% PoVR tax is applied to all transactions, with funds allocated to various initiatives.

Specification
Functions:
solidity
function totalSupply() external view returns (uint256);
function balanceOf(address account) external view returns (uint256);
function transfer(address recipient, uint256 amount) external returns (bool);
function allowance(address owner, address spender) external view returns (uint256);
function approve(address spender, uint256 amount) external returns (bool);
function transferFrom(address sender, address recipient, uint256 amount) external returns (bool);
function PoVR_donation(uint256 amount) external;


Events:
solidity
event Transfer(address indexed from, address indexed to, uint256 value);
event Approval(address indexed owner, address indexed spender, uint256 value);
event PoVR_Donation(address indexed donor, uint256 amount);


PoVR Tax Mechanism:
- Whenever a transaction occurs, 0.5% of the SCT amount is deducted and automatically distributed as follows:
  - 50% to the Aerospace Supply Chain Certification Fund
  - 30% to The Giving Block
  - 20% to Gitcoin Grants



2. SCNFT (SpaceComponentNFT, ERC721)

EIP: ERC-721 Standard
Title: Space Component NFT
Author: [Brian_Joakim_Xuanzheng]
Status: Draft
Type: Standard
Created: [2025-02-28]

Abstract
SCNFT is an ERC721-compliant NFT that represents a complete aerospace component in the supply chain. It is minted by combining ERC1155 fragment NFTs. The NFT includes a PoVR certification mechanism, which allows supply chain enterprises to validate component authenticity.

Specification
Functions:
solidity
function mintComponent(address to, uint256 tokenId) external;
function submitProof(uint256 tokenId) external;
function isPoVR_Certified(uint256 tokenId) external view returns (bool);


Events:
solidity
event ComponentMinted(address indexed owner, uint256 tokenId);
event PoVR_Certified(uint256 indexed tokenId, address indexed certifier);


PoVR Certification Mechanism:
- The `submitProof()` function allows an NFT owner to manually mark the NFT as PoVR certified.
- This function is used to simulate real-world validation without requiring external data inputs.



3. FragmentNFT (ERC1155)

EIP: ERC-1155 Standard
Title: Space Component Fragment NFT
Author: [Brian_Joakim_Xuanzheng]
Status: Draft
Type: Standard
Created: [2025-02-28]

Abstract
FragmentNFTs are ERC1155-compliant NFTs representing component fragments obtained from blind boxes. These fragments can be traded or combined to form a full SCNFT.

Specification
Functions:
solidity
function mintFragments(address to, uint256 id, uint256 amount) external;
function combineNFT(uint256[] memory fragmentIds) external;
function burn(address account, uint256 id, uint256 amount) external;


Events:
solidity
event FragmentMinted(address indexed owner, uint256 fragmentId, uint256 amount);
event ComponentCombined(address indexed owner, uint256 newComponentId);
event FragmentBurned(address indexed owner, uint256 fragmentId, uint256 amount);


Blind Box and Combination Mechanism:
- Players acquire FragmentNFTs from blind boxes.
- At least 3-5 fragments must be collected to mint a full SCNFT.
- `combineNFT()` burns the fragments and mints a new SCNFT.


Conclusion
This technical specification outlines the required ERC20, ERC721, and ERC1155 standards for the SpaceComponentToken (SCT), SpaceComponentNFT (SCNFT), and FragmentNFT. These tokens integrate seamlessly into the blind box system and simulate PoVR contributions without requiring real-world validation data.

These specifications ensure a clear roadmap for Solidity implementation, making it easier to complete Exercise 3 efficiently.


